Readme.md, before:

<!-- default badges list -->
![](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://codecentral.devexpress.com/api/v1/VersionRange/128612997/22.1.3%2B)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/T830622)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->
# Spreadsheet Document API - Use a Worksheet Table as a Data Source


In this example, a worksheet containing a [table](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.Table) with data is loaded in a [Workbook](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.Workbook) instance. The [Table.GetDataSource](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/devexpress.spreadsheet.table.getdatasource.overloads) method returns a data source which is subsequently used to create a report in a [SnapControl](https://docs.devexpress.com/WindowsForms/DevExpress.Snap.SnapControl?v=21.2).  
To modify worksheet data before they are exposed as data source fields, the application utilizes a custom converter which implements the [IBindingRangeValueConverter](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.IBindingRangeValueConverter) interface. The **MyPictureProvider **converter finds a picture in a worksheet by its name and returns a picture bitmap instead of a name specified in a worksheet column.   
The custom **MyColumnDetector** object which implements the [IDataSourceColumnTypeDetector](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.IDataSourceColumnTypeDetector) interface is used to specify column names and types.  
Note that a [Snap report template](https://docs.devexpress.com/WindowsForms/11373/controls-and-libraries/snap?v=21.2) which is required to visualize the data in the [Snap](https://docs.devexpress.com/WindowsForms/11373/controls-and-libraries/snap?v=21.2) application is created in code at runtime.  

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DevExpress-Examples/document-server-how-to-use-a-worksheet-as-a-data-source-for-the-snap-report-t518070/17.1.3+/media/f799c6c5-4065-11e7-80c0-00155d624807.png)

Commit message:

Visualized data via the RichEditControl component

Readme.md, after:

<!-- default badges list -->
![](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://codecentral.devexpress.com/api/v1/VersionRange/128612997/22.1.3%2B)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/T830622)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->
# Spreadsheet Document API - Use a Worksheet Table as a Data Source


In this example, a worksheet containing a [table](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.Table) with data is loaded in a [Workbook](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.Workbook) instance. The [Table.GetDataSource](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/devexpress.spreadsheet.table.getdatasource.overloads) method returns a data source which is subsequently used to create a report in a [RichEditControl](https://docs.devexpress.com/WindowsForms/DevExpress.XtraRichEdit.RichEditControl).  
To modify worksheet data before they are exposed as data source fields, the application utilizes a custom converter which implements the [IBindingRangeValueConverter](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.IBindingRangeValueConverter) interface. The **MyPictureProvider** converter finds a picture in a worksheet by its name and returns a picture bitmap instead of a name specified in a worksheet column.   
The custom **MyColumnDetector** object which implements the [IDataSourceColumnTypeDetector](https://docs.devexpress.com/OfficeFileAPI/DevExpress.Spreadsheet.IDataSourceColumnTypeDetector) interface is used to specify column names and types.  
Note that a table required to visualize the data in the **RichEditControl** component is created in code at runtime.  

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DevExpress-Examples/document-server-how-to-use-a-worksheet-as-a-data-source-for-the-snap-report-t518070/22.1.3+/media/f799c6c5-4065-11e7-80c0-00155d624807.png)
